# Workflow Wednesday - BackgroundMusic

Welcome back to Workflow Wednesday! In this installment I discuss
**BackgroundMusic**, a MacOS volume control app.

## The Problem

I often have various sounds going on in the background while working,
such as notifications and music. Some applications, like Youtube or
Spotify, offer app-specific volume control. Some apps, like Slack,
aren't so convenient to control in this way.

If you're the type of person who enjoys listening to music or podcasts
while working, it's critical to have a careful control over volume to
avoid developing tinnitus over time. As a guitarist who used to spend
the weekends on recklessly loud band practices back in high school,
I'm always very careful to avoid making my tinnitus worse. However,
this can be challenging when different apps offer different tools for
volume control, or none at all. For example, I've often found myself
being caught off guard by notifications going off at full volume because
my music app was at reduced volume. As a long-time Windows user, I was
used to having some kind of built-in system volume mixer functionality,
so I knew there had to be something out there for MacOS.

## The Solution

**Background Music** is a free, open-source MacOS app that provides an impressive
array of audio-related functionality. My main point of interest is its mixer
function: after installing **Background Music**, the user is able to individually
control the volume for active apps, such as browsers, media players, and chat
apps. There is also support built in for auto-pausing media players like
Spotify or iTunes when another app plays audio, as well as for recording
system audio.

As a huge fan of effective documentation, I wanted to point out how much
I enjoyed reading through the app's README. Everything from features to setup
is covered thoroughly, and not only does the author freely point out existing
issues with the project but there's even a sizable, nicely organized list of 
other apps that offer similar functionality!

## The Results

Using **Background Music** has been a breeze. I find myself frequently and
effortlessly navigating up to the controls to make adjustments when the system
volume control won't cut it. It was easy to set up, does exactly what it
claims, and integrates seamlessly into my workflow. 

One issue that I have come across is when trying to use **Background Music** with
iTerm2. I'll have to do further investigating to see where the issue is coming
from, but since I don't usually have much sound coming from iTerm2, it
thankfully hasn't been a problem for me.

I generally keep system volume at a minimal level and then use **Background
Music** to further adjust volumes on an app-specific basis, but it's also handy
to be able to boost particular app volumes when the need arises. I feel at ease
knowing I can adjust volumes to the exact levels that I want, and make sure I'm
protecting my hearing. I don't record system audio or use auto-pause very often,
but I do find the inclusionof these additional features to be a nice bonus.

### Closing Remarks

I'd like to give out a sincere thanks to all the people who read and commented
on my previous post, as well as to those who've followed me on dev.to. This
series has already been helpful in many ways, from finding a way to connect with
the dev community to more closely examining the tools I use and the way software
tools are crafted. As always, if you have any recommendations or comments, please
feel free to share! In the meantime, I'll be prepping for my next installment of
*Workflow Wednesday*.


###### Further Reading

* Background Music on GitHub: https://github.com/kyleneideck/BackgroundMusic
